Ref clt spacewalk repo sync #3504 ke (#757)
SUSE/doc-susemanager: modules/reference/pages/command-line-tools.adoc

[[spacewalk-repo-sync]]

> == Synchronize yum Repositories into {productname} Channels (spacewalk-repo-sync)

Reviewer: yum => software

repomd Repositories would be correct, but this tool can also mirror debian repos. So let's just be generic and say "software repositories"

Author: great, much better :)

> == Synchronize yum Repositories into {productname} Channels (spacewalk-repo-sync)

Author: ```suggestion
== Synchronize Software Repositories into {productname} Channels (spacewalk-repo-sync)
```

> == Synchronize Software Repositories into {productname} Channels (spacewalk-repo-sync)

Reviewer 2: Wow, long title. What about:

```suggestion
== Synchronize Software Repositories into Channels
```

Or: 

```suggestion
== Synchronize Repositories  with spacewalk-repo-sync
```

Author: I'll take the or version (because it is in the Ref Guide, I'd like to see the name of the tool we are discussing in the title.

> [command]``spacewalk-repo-sync`` is an important tool on {productname}, which works most of the time in the background.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [command]``spacewalk-repo-sync`` tool synchronizes software repositories into {productname} channels.
```

> With [command]``spacewalk-repo-sync`` you mainly synchronize yum repositories into {productname} channels.

Reviewer: yum => software and maybe we do not need the "mainly".

> With [command]``spacewalk-repo-sync`` you mainly synchronize yum repositories into {productname} channels.

Author: ```suggestion
With [command]``spacewalk-repo-sync`` you synchronize software repositories into {productname} channels.
```

> With [command]``spacewalk-repo-sync`` you synchronize software repositories into {productname} channels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This usually happens automatically, but you can run it manually if required.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> But for debugging or solving smaller issues it is useful to run it directly with special parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This can be useful for debugging or for solving some synchronization problems.
```

Reviewer 2: Notes on edits to these three lines:
* The first line should explain what the tool does
* The second line then goes on to explain the circumstances in which you would use it.

It's the same principle as sentence structure, but on a higher level: the first part is the most important, the second part is the lens.

=== Normal Channel Synchronization

Basic operation:

[command]``spacewalk-repo-sync --list``::
List all custom channels and the repositories assigned to them.
[command]``spacewalk-repo-sync  --channel <custom-channel>``::
Synchronize a single channel ``<custom-channel>`` to all repositories assigned to it with the {webui} or the API.

=== Solve Checksum Problems

> Use the [option]``--deep-verify`` option to ignore cached package checksums, and thus solving checksum problems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the [option]``--deep-verify`` option to ignore cached package checksums.
This can help with solving checksum problems.
```

> === Force Re-import Patches (Errata)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Force Re-import Patches
```

Author: To help users coming from satellite, we used to add "errata" when talking about patches.  Maybe, this is no longer useful and causes more trouble than good.  I do not want to decide about it.

> Use the [option]``--force-all-errata`` to force re-importing all the patches (errata).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the [option]``--force-all-errata`` option to force re-importing all the patches.
```
I feel like we would need to go into an exposition here about the use of the term "errata", I don't expect it's in common use outside of Red Hat.

> To speed it up you can combine it with the [option]``--no-packages`` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make this command run faster, you can use the [option]``--no-packages`` option.
This option excludes packages from the operation. 
```

> To find the root cause of synchronization problems it often helps to view the HTTP log when command]``spacewalk-repo-sync`` is running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To find the root cause of synchronization problems you can look at the HTTP log as [command]``spacewalk-repo-sync`` is running.
```

. Set and export the [systemitem]``URLGRABBER_DEBUG``:
+
----

> export URLGRABBER_DEBUG=DEBUG

Reviewer: Hmm, I fear after the usage of "zypper" this might not work anymore or will give an incomplete result.

@meaksh How would we debug today? The goal is to get the full HTTP protocol conversation printed to the logs.

For zypper you can set the following environment variable:

    ZYPP_MEDIA_CURL_DEBUG=<1|2> Log http headers, if 2 also log server responses.

But we do not use zypper exclusive. For the Downloader part would the URLGRABBER_DEBUG option still work?
Also with python3 ?

Reviewer 3: There are two things here:

Setting `ZYPP_MEDIA_CURL_DEBUG=<1|2>` as env variable would work for the metadata downloading part made by Zypper. So, i.a., `ZYPP_MEDIA_CURL_DEBUG=2 spacewalk-repo-sync -c MYCHANNEL` will log the HTTP conversation into `/var/log/zypper.log`.

For the RPM downloading part, we would need to keep using `URLGRABBER_DEBUG` (since the backend for downloading the RPM is still `urlgrabber`), but I just tested it now and it seems there is an issue when running on Python3.

I've just filed a bug for this: https://bugzilla.suse.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1152514

Author: @meaksh thanks for checking and feedback!

----

> . Run the synchronization command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Start the synchronization:
```

+

----
/usr/bin/spacewalk-repo-sync --channel <channel-label> --type yum
----

To increase the debug level, add the [option]``-vvv`` option.

> When debugging is done, disable the debug mode:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When debugging is finished, disable debug mode:
```

----
unset URLGRABBER_DEBUG
----

=== For More Information

> For a complete list of command line option, see the [command]``spacewalk-repo-sync`` manpage ([command]``man spacewalk-repo-sync``).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a complete list of command line options, see the [command]``spacewalk-repo-sync`` manpage:

 ----
 man spacewalk-repo-sync
 ----
```

[[syncing.suse.mgr.repositories.scc]]

> == Syncing SUSE Manager Repositories from SCC (mgr-sync)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Synchronize SUSE Manager Repositories from SCC (mgr-sync)
```

Ooh, drive-by edits! :wink:
